<!-- TOC START min:1 max:3 link:true update:true -->
- [Note](#note)
- [Requirements](#requirements)
- [Goal](#goal)
- [Assets](#assets)
  - [The Launch Card](#the-launch-card)
  - [Reference](#reference)
  - [Tokens](#tokens)
  - [Factories](#factories)
- [Gameplay](#gameplay)
  - [Setup](#setup)
  - [Loop](#loop)
    - [Place a piece](#place-a-piece)
    - [Draw a resources](#draw-a-resources)
- [Roles of each thing](#roles-of-each-thing)
  - [Tiles](#tiles)
  - [Tokens](#tokens-1)
  - [Cards](#cards)
    - [note ore produced by drill = numbver on card/3](#note-ore-produced-by-drill--numbver-on-card3)
    - [Mining](#mining)
    - [Smelting](#smelting)
    - [Assembly](#assembly)
    - [Research](#research)
- [Gameplay Differences between the board game and the real Factorio](#gameplay-differences-between-the-board-game-and-the-real-factorio)
- [Examples](#examples)
  - [Red Science Pack](#red-science-pack)
  - [Bug attack](#bug-attack)

<!-- TOC END -->


# Note

This is a work-in-progress!


# Requirements

* All the printed assets
	* Launch sheet
	* Tokens
	* Factories (assembling machines, mining drills, refineries, etc..)
	* Resource Deck
	* Recipes
* A gaming table

# Goal

Be the first player to launch the rocket.

# Assets

## The Launch Card

This is the primary game board for each player.  It is divided into three panels.

* _The Launch Silo_ - To win the game, the player must generate, and place all the
required tokens on the token boxes.  For example, it requires "rocket parts",
so a factory must be built to create rocket parts, but the ingredients required
to create a rocket part themselves require more factories.  Welcome to Factorio.
* _Technology Tree_ - A (simplified) technology tree is presented to allow the
player to place science pack tokens at each level.  Each technology level unlocks
new resources that can be manufactured.  As a special bonus, each time a new
_type_ of science pack is added, all existing factories generate another resource
token.
* _Inventory_ - this is a place to keep resource tokens.  It also indicates the
starting factories the player receives.  Tokens in the inventory enable the
player to build additional factories, which curiously doesn't consume the token
(because resource tokens represent a "flow" of that resource)

## Reference

A simplified list of recipes is provided just for reference.

## Tokens

These little things are generated by the various factories and are really the
currency of the game.  Unlike the video game version of Factorio, these tokens
represent _a continuous supply_ of the resource, rather than a singlular one.

This is an important distinction, as it's not practical, or fun, to manually
pull resource tokens out of all the factories every turn.  So, once a factory
has generated a resource token, it can be placed on another factory, and that
factory is now receiving that resource.

## Factories

Factory tiles are all the things that produce tokens, most commonly the
Assembling Machine.  The back of the Factory card shows the inventory
resource requirements needed to place a factory on the table.

> Factories do not consume inventory resources tokens when created, however placing a new factory on the board counts as that turn's action.

If the player has the appropriate technology level, a token for the desired
product of that factory is placed on the top of half of the card, as a free
resource token.  The bottom half is populated with the required resource tokens
taken from the player's inventory.  Once the factory has the appropriate resource
tokens, that factory's product token can be placed in the person's inventory.



# Gameplay

## Setup

Each player starts with the starting factories indicated on the launch card,
placed on the board.

## Loop

The goal is to build a rocket.  Doing so requires a series of ever increasing detailed resource requirements, ultimately beginning in the collection of resources.

Players go one at a time performing actions.  Only one action can be performed per turn.

Actions include:

### Place a Factory

To place a factory, consult the back of the card.  It indicates the resources that must be present in the player's inventory to be able to place the card.

> Note, since resource tokens are continues, the player keeps the tokens in inventory.  It's weird, I know.

Once the factory has been placed, the player puts a token of the factory's product on the top half of the card, and the resources required to build it on the bottom half.  An additional product resource token is placed in the player's inventory, ready to be added to another factory on the next turn.

### Draw a resources

The player can choose to draw a new resource card.  

#### Resource Card

The player can put an appropriate factory on the resource card, such as a mining drill.  Doing so produces the appropriate resource token (such as iron ore) which can be put into a furnace on the next turn.  Each resource card can hold a factory for each icon displayed.

#### Bug Card

Bug attack!  Select an opposing player to receive the bug attack.  Calculate the damage:

> [Number of Bugs] - [Number of Guns] = [Number of Factories]

The opposing player is required to remove [Number of Factories] from his area.  Any resources those factories were generating are also removed.  That player must rebuild.

It's good strategy therefore to get guns up pretty early in the game.

# Roles of each thing

## Factories

"Factory" is the generic term for Assembling Machines, Mining Drills, Refineries, etc...  Factories produce resource tokens, if given the appropriate amount of resource tokens.  Some items like Copper Wire require just Copper Plate, but some require a great deal more complicated resources, each requiring their own factories.  

#### Mining

If the player has a resource card, and a mining drill, the drill can be placed on that resource card, and the player receives an appropriate ore token.  The card holds one drill (or jack) per icon.

#### Smelting

That iron ore token can be placed on a furnace card, and the player receives two of the appropriate plate tokens.  One of the plate tokens is placed back on the smelter, as an indication of it's function.  The other goes
to inventory, or perhaps another factory.

#### Assembly

If a player has placed an assembly machine, the player designates the function of the assembly machine by placing a resource token on the top half machine, as a free action.  Depending on the product of the assembly machine, one or more resource tokens will need to be placed on the assembly machine as a free action.  Once the machine has been "set up", it's product is placed in the player's inventory, and then onto another assembling machine on the next turn.


## Tokens

Unlike real *Factorio*, resource tokens are indicators of continuing production, rather than a single thing.  Think of it as each token as a "resource per minute" or a rate.  A token sitting in inventory has the potential to provide resources to a machine tile, or to allow for the creation of factories.  When a token is placed on a machine, that machine is receiving that resource.

## Resource Deck

The Resource Deck takes the place of exploring the map.  Drawing from the resource deck is analogous to walking around the map, looking for resources.  Sometimes you find Iron Ore, sometimes Oil, sometimes Bugs.

## Guns

When someone draws a Bug card from the deck, another player receives the attack.  Guns are used to shoot the attacking bugs, preventing them from damaging.  If you are attacked by a 3-Bug card, and you have created 3 guns, then you loose no factories.

### Research

Some assembly machines produce science packs.  Science packs are placed on the
Technology Tree on the Launch Card.

Each technology tree advance grants _a whole new set_ of tokens from each assembling machine, if indicated on the Launch card.  If you have two assembling machines making gears, then you get 2 gears added to your inventory  (this is analogous to researching advanced assembling machines, or using productivity modules, I guess).

# Gameplay Differences between the board game and the real Factorio

* It's made chiefly of paper.
* No Belts/Bots/Chest/Trains. Inserters, chests and belts just make too many game pieces, and get too close to "Why not just play *Factorio*".
* Resource tokens represent a _flow_ of resources, rather than a single resource.  
* The tech tree is greatly simplified.
* Many of the recipes are simplified.
* Exploring for resources is equivalent to drawing resource cards.  You don't always get what you want when drawing a card, or driving around in your tank.
* There is no power at this point.
* Technology research requires only 1 type of science pack.
* Assembling machine speed automatically happens with the advancement in the technology tree

# Examples

## Red Science Pack

1.  Player draws a card from the Resource Deck.  It's has 2 Iron Ores.  Player places a Mining Drill on the card, places an iron ore token on the drill, and one in inventory.
2.  Player places a Furnace.  Player places the Iron Ore and an Iron Plate on the furnace, and a second Iron plate into inventory.
3.  Player places a Assembling Machine.  Player places the Iron Plate, plus a Gear token on the Assembling machine, and a second gear into inventory.
4.  Player draws a card from the Resource Deck.  It's got a Copper Ore.  Player places Mining Drill on the card, places a copper ore token on the drill, and one in inventory.
5.  Player places a Furnace.  Player places the Copper Ore and a Copper Plate onto the furnace, and a second Copper Plate into inventory.
6.  Player places a second Drill on the Iron Ore resource card (because it can hold 2).  Player places an iron ore token on the drill and a second one into inventory.
7.  Having the Iron Ore in inventory allows the player to generate a new Assembling Machine (in _alpha_ v0.1, at least).  Player places the Assembling Machine on the board, along with a gear, a copper plate and a red science pack.  A second red science pack is added to inventory.
8.  The red science pack is added to the Tech Tree on the Launch card.  This unlocks new recipies, as well as (optionally) generating a second set of resources from the Assembling Machine.  So, the player gets a second gear, a second iron plate and a second copper plate for inventory.



## Bug attack

(this all happens in a single turn)

1.  Player 1 draws a Bug card, with 3 bugs on it.  
2. Player 1 selects an Opposing Player.
2.  The opposing player has 1 gun built, so the damage he takes is 3(bugs)-1(guns) = 2(damage).
3.  Opposing player removes his two most recent factories, along with the resource tokens they generated.
4.  Opposing player wishes he spent more time building guns.
